# hessaala.github.io
eyes-open - 30MFF

This website debuts and brands 'Eyes Open', a short action open ending film. The title of the film gives an awakening & 'watch-out' sense which associates with the theme of the film and the 3 eyes logo, a symbol for the three girls. The whole website experience relates to a real film viewing experience, in which the user first looks through the poster of the film on the 'Home Page', then reads 'About' the film and production, and later views the film. The user experience is further developed by allowing the user to choose their own ending for the film, and a response is generated when an option is chosen, which reflects the user's thinking. The overall concept had an initial idea of using 'eyes' as the main theme, but the eyes developed to become more than that by being interactive in every way: to navigate through the pages, to symbolize the three girls, and to act as a logo on every page. 


spooky-night - ComicProject

This website involves a riddle experience which is enhanced by ghost world speech reacting to human world jokes. The title is “Spooky Night”, chosen to give a sense of the whole website theme before the user begins to use it. The story is situated in a Halloween themed party in the ghost world, where the festivity features the telling of human riddle jokes, just how the human world use ghost stories in Halloween. The riddle experience is not only created for the ghosts to interact with, but at the same time, there is time for the user to think about the answers of the riddle as they are scrolling down, so it is a dual experience. 
Our initial idea was having two people joking around the riddles and the answers would show up as illustrations. When the illustrations were starting to develop, ghosts were drawn instead of humans, and this idea came out unexpectedly and genuinely. The jokes were originally created using Adobe Illustrator and were interactively integrated into the webpage with animating each of their elements uniquely. As the webpage started to evolve, we lacked an overall theme and a color palette; as we started integrating the ghost characters into the webpage, an idea popped up for a Halloween themed webpage, which was very fitting with the ghost characters. At this point, an overall theme had been developed, but not a solid storyline. As the characters and theme was set, the storyline that suited both equally was created: 2 ghosts attending a Halloween party joke about the human world. The incorporation of the ghosts was planned to create an inclusion experience to users, whether they were particularly interested in the riddle jokes and found them funny, or they were bewildered by the jokes and confused, just as how the two ghosts had totally different reactions to the jokes. The colors of the webpage were chosen to suit a Halloween party theme, but the colors of the jokes were significantly different for the purpose of showing the difference between the human world inside the joke and the ghost world outside. The characters “friends” in the jokes were also purposed to give a Halloween sense by how significantly they were each illustrated.
Generally, our initial concept of riddle jokes did get implemented, but in a very different theme than we expected it to be, even if we did not have an initial theme. I think the webpage’s interactivity turned out to be engaging very well with the user as we had originally thought, in which they are involved in the storyline and answering the questions with the ghosts. The Halloween theme was not anticipated in the end, but I think when it was implemented, it was the thing that linked everything in the webpage together, from the ghost characters to the storyline, jokes and color palette of the webpage. 

mind-space - SoundProject

Mind Space is an audio-visual letter writing experience aimed at raising awareness for mental health. The page begins with a message for the user to have their first interaction with, and by clicking a button, they are directed to the main page with an intro audio of Mike & I describing the experience of the webpage. The audio intends to locate us in a coffee shop, where we meet to tell users about Mind Space. When the audio is done, users are directed to an empty letter, where they could write any thoughts they have in mind, whether to themselves or an open letter to anyone, we just want that empty space to manifest feelings users may not want inside of them. While writing the letter, the keyboard has piano notes and every letter typed would be visualized with randomly colored circles popping up, which is intended to display the emotions of the user through words. When the send button is clicked, their letter gets animated into an envelope, which represents that their thoughts are now safe inside it. Users get to choose to write another letter if they wish or learn more about mental health through resources given to them. 

For implementation, we were striving for a basic visual design and focus more on the audio. Working on the wireframe, I had just put random lines across the page to represent the ‘minimal design’ we would actually use in the web page, but we turned out to like the idea of the lines actually representing thoughts in our minds. Thinking about it more, we designed the landing page to have the most complicated lines, then as the user experiences gets to the main page where the first audio is played, the lines become less complex as the calm background music intends to give a relaxing mood. We also wanted to give the user the chance to skip down to the letter by clicking on the arrows on the left anytime through the intro audio if they think they want to. When the user goes to the letter writing, the lines become the least complicated, since writing down thoughts and feelings makes you understand them and gain more control of your emotions. The piano notes are also part of the letter writing, spilling out complex thoughts process. Every letter and word written would let out a different emotion with the different piano notes released and the different colors of the circles. The circles intend to release the emotions of the user as they write, because we feel things always, even if our thoughts are not complex (which is signified through the little lines). The sounds of the piano notes would seem loud because it intends to display complex thoughts that turn into words when letter writing. The ending footer comes up when the user clicks on ‘send’, which have 2 options, writing a new letter and learning more about mental health through a link of resources. There are two intended contrasts worth mentioning: the contrast between the calm background and loud piano notes, and the contrast between the simple lines on the letter page and the colorful circles coming out when typing; both of those signify a calm mood while listening to the intro and outro audio, but also a state of acknowledging feelings and spilling them out during the letter writing experience.

The colors of the overall page (excluding the colored circles coming out when typing) are limited to shades of blue, yellow, and light purple, the universal colors meant to represent mental health awareness. Several issues came up while working on this project, including refreshing the letter for ‘write a new letter’, integrating the intro and outro sounds were a challenging aspect – but normal since it’s my first experience with sounds on the web. The visuals, design, layout, letter writing and animation, footer ending options, and recording intro and outro sounds were elements that I mainly worked on developing. 

Overall, our expectations were almost fully met in this project, from the design to audio to the full experience. In addition to the elements of the webpage, we wanted to add an option for the user to share their letter by generating a link after the send button is pressed – but due to time constraints we mainly focused on developing the more important elements of the page. The final working version is almost exactly like our wireframe and what we had in mind initially, but with small changes in the page elements, design, and colors. 

self care: perspectives on how-to - VideoProject

A stop motion video project aiming to normalize what makes you feel good. The stop motion videos incorporate objects we have at home: a mug, banana, paperclip, and a boot. Those objects might seem random, but it served our purpose of everybody and thing needs self care nowadays, whether for a little while or longer. The 4 stop motion videos followed 3 broad steps for taking care of ourselves, which we all agreed are necessary to our well being, but to each was defined differently: clear your mind, treat yourself, go out. The videos were categorized based on how much time you have to spend on self care today, because sometimes we really do have less than 20 minutes to do it, and sometimes a whole weekend, and emphasis on we need to find time to practice self care is shown with a timeline. The main idea of this project is showing “how-to”, including the word perspective to emphasize what works for others might not work for users, so these videos were filmed to inspire them to find their own routine as we tried to show as many perspectives as possible through videos, diy kit, and writing our own self care routine in the footer.

The objects filmed were practicing their own self care routine, to inspire others to find what self care practice makes them feel good and refreshed. The color scheme, shape choice, and font were all chosen to suit the theme of self care and easing up on ourselves. The different contrasts in the buttons served the purpose of creating a different option for the user to navigate through the pages, like the DIY kit button in the menu in green then the DIY kit button that appears in the video section in pink. I also created the fonts and colors of the logo to suit our main theme. The footer choice came up in the end, where each of us thought about our own self care routines, to inspire more self care ideas for the users. Another idea we implemented was make your own self care kit, because we thought that would take users one step further into thinking about their own routine and motivating them to practice it more.

The idea came very naturally, we all wanted to get a little experience with stop motion, and self care was a topic we all cared about, so the outcome was combining both. As soon as we decided on the concept, we made sure we allocated time to shoot because we knew it would take so much time to film, specially with objects. Personally, I chose a paperclip because it was the prettiest thing on my desk and thought it would look very aesthetic in the video. The process of filming had a lot of second and third shooting process because of many factors: my phone wouldn’t be stable and would fall off, the lightening would go and come back because of the clouds, the shadow of my hand showing in more than one frame, and many more details that I don’t remember anymore. Those factors may sound very little, but they had a big effect in the final video so reshooting was the only solution. My video had 15 frames per second, and the full video of 50 minutes no editing took a total of 10 hours to film. The experience was more rewarding than tiring for sure, and we were amazed by the outcome. I mainly worked on coding the main page, and displaying the videos whenever editing was done. 

There were a handful of challenges I faced, from having a button work to making the page responsive, some of which I directly found the solution to, and some which took a whole day to figure out. Our working version on github was a bit different from what we had on our local server, with 2 little details that do not work. One being the “send me my package” button which was supposed to turn into “check your mail” button when clicked, the second being the highlighted menu button when the section is active, it works completely fine all the way through except if the user scrolls down then back up to the very top (at 0), although we tried using the javascript >= sign to 0 and that gave us an error. 

The videos surpassed our expectations, because it was our first time working with stop motion and did not expect the quality to be this professional. I think our website does a good job at exhibiting our theme and concept of self care, as it serves to display our videos. Overall, this project was very rewarding and I absolutely loved working on it with the team.



